# GRADIO-APP-FOR-SALES-PREDICTION-FOR-CUSTOMER-CHURN
Gradio Web app for classification project to predict customer churn

# Introduction

Gradio is an open-source Python library that enables you to quickly create custom interfaces for your machine learning models, allowing you to deploy them without needing to build a complete web application.

In this project, we will build and deploy a machine learning model using Gradio.

We will use a dataset that contains information about customer churn for a telecommunications company. Our goal is to build a model that predicts whether a customer is likely to churn or not. We will then create a Gradio interface that allows users to input customer data and get a churn prediction.

## Summary
| Code      | Name        | Published Article |  Deployed App |
|-----------|-------------|:-------------:|------:|
| LP4 | Gradio-app |  [Best article of the world](https://medium.com/@kagajugrace/gradio-app-for-sales-prediction-for-customer-churn-53901e55737a) | [Best app of the world](/) |


# 🚀 Setup

Install the required packages to be able to run the evaluation locally.

You need to have [`Python3`](https://www.python.org/) on your system. Then you can clone this repo and being at the repo's root (`root :: repo_name> ...`) follow the steps below:

- Windows:

```python
python -m venv venv; venv\Scripts\activate; python -m pip install -q --upgrade pip; python -m pip install -qr requirements.txt
```

- Linux & MacOs:

```python
python3 -m venv venv; source venv/bin/activate; python -m pip install -q --upgrade pip; python -m pip install -qr requirements.txt
```

The both long command-lines have a same structure, they pipe multiple commands using the symbol **;** but you may manually execute them one after another.

1. **Create the Python's virtual environment** that isolates the required libraries of the project to avoid conflicts;
2. **Activate the Python's virtual environment** so that the Python kernel & libraries will be those of the isolated environment;
3. **Upgrade Pip, the installed libraries/packages manager** to have the up-to-date version that will work correctly;
4. **Install the required libraries/packages** listed in the `requirements.txt` file so that it will be allow to import them into the python's scripts and notebooks without any issue.

**NB:** For MacOs users, please install `Xcode` if you have an issue.

# 🔧 Building the Gradio App

We will use the Gradio library to create the app. The app will have input components such as dropdowns, sliders, and radio buttons. These components take in user input and store them as variables. We will also define an output component, which displays the churn prediction generated by the machine learning model.

# 🚀 Execution

To Run the app: Start the Gradio app by calling the launch() method on the Gradio interface object.

```python
iface.launch(inbrowser= True, show_error= True)
```

This will launch a local web server and open a browser window with the Gradio interface. Then you just click on run and you're good to go.

## Project Description
Embedding machine learning models into streamlit and gradio

# ✨ Conclusion

We have now built a Gradio app that predicts customer churn using machine learning. The app is simple to use and can be easily deployed to the cloud or integrated into a web application.

## Author
Marie Grace KAGAJU